DOCSUP-8022: setting prefer_column_name_to_alias documentated (#22979)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/operations/settings/settings.md

Default value: `0`.

## prefer_column_name_to_alias {#prefer-column-name-to-alias}

> Enables or disables using of the original column names instead of [aliases](../../sql-reference/syntax.md#syntax-expression_aliases). Enable this setting to make aliases syntax rules of the ClickHouse more compatible with most other database engines.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enables or disables using of the original column names instead of [aliases](../../sql-reference/syntax.md#syntax-expression_aliases). Enable this setting to make aliases syntax rules in ClickHouse more compatible with most other database engines.

```

Possible values:

> - 0 — Setting disabled — alias overrides name of the column if they match.
> - 1 — Settnig enabled — name of the column is used, when it matches the alias.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 0 — Alias overrides the column name.
- 1 — Name of the column is preferred.
```

Default value: `0`.

## prefer_column_name_to_alias {#prefer-column-name-to-alias}

> Enables or disables using the original column names instead of aliases. It especially matters when alias is the same as the column name, see [Expression Aliases](../../sql-reference/syntax.md#notes-on-usage). Enable this setting to make aliases syntax rules in ClickHouse more compatible with most other database engines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enables or disables using the original column names instead of aliases in query expressions and clauses. It especially matters when alias is the same as the column name, see [Expression Aliases](../../sql-reference/syntax.md#notes-on-usage). Enable this setting to make aliases syntax rules in ClickHouse more compatible with most other database engines.
```

Possible values:

> - 0 — The column name is substituted with the alias if they match.
> - 1 — The column name is used even when it matches the alias. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 0 — The column name is substituted with the alias.
- 1 — The column name is not substituted with the alias. 
```

Default value: `0`.

## prefer_column_name_to_alias {#prefer-column-name-to-alias}

Enables or disables using the original column names instead of aliases in query expressions and clauses. It especially matters when alias is the same as the column name, see [Expression Aliases](../../sql-reference/syntax.md#notes-on-usage). Enable this setting to make aliases syntax rules in ClickHouse more compatible with most other database engines.

Possible values:

- 0 — The column name is substituted with the alias.
- 1 — The column name is not substituted with the alias. 

Default value: `0`.

**Example**

The difference between enabled and disabled:

Query:

```sql
SET prefer_column_name_to_alias = 0;
SELECT avg(number) AS number, max(number) FROM numbers(10);
```

Result:

``` text
Received exception from server (version 21.5.1):
Code: 184. DB::Exception: Received from localhost:9000. DB::Exception: Aggregate function avg(number) is found inside another aggregate function in query: While processing avg(number) AS number.

> =======

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sql
SET prefer_column_name_to_alias = 1;
SELECT avg(number) AS number, max(number) FROM numbers(10);
```
Result:

```text
┌─number─┬─max(number)─┐
│    4.5 │           9 │
└────────┴─────────────┘
```
```

Default value: `0`.

## prefer_column_name_to_alias {#prefer-column-name-to-alias}

Enables or disables using the original column names instead of aliases in query expressions and clauses. It especially matters when alias is the same as the column name, see [Expression Aliases](../../sql-reference/syntax.md#notes-on-usage). Enable this setting to make aliases syntax rules in ClickHouse more compatible with most other database engines.

Possible values:

- 0 — The column name is substituted with the alias.
- 1 — The column name is not substituted with the alias. 

Default value: `0`.

**Example**

The difference between enabled and disabled:

Query:

```sql
SET prefer_column_name_to_alias = 0;
SELECT avg(number) AS number, max(number) FROM numbers(10);
```

Result:

``` text
Received exception from server (version 21.5.1):
Code: 184. DB::Exception: Received from localhost:9000. DB::Exception: Aggregate function avg(number) is found inside another aggregate function in query: While processing avg(number) AS number.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

Query:

> ```sql
> SET prefer_column_name_to_alias = 1;
> SELECT avg(number) AS number, max(number) FROM numbers(10);
> =======

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ```sql
> SET prefer_column_name_to_alias = 1;
> SELECT avg(number) AS number, max(number) FROM numbers(10);
> =======

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Result:

> ```text
> ┌─number─┬─max(number)─┐
> │    4.5 │           9 │
> └────────┴─────────────┘
> ```
> 
> Default value: `0`.
> =======

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default value: `0`.
```
